# InstaHire
The pragmatic solution to all the issues pertaining to recruitment process can be identified with an open platform application which facilitates bi-directional communication between the employer and hired. 
To go by, the proposed project application relates to the development of an user friendly, innovative and reliable hybrid (cross-platform) app 'InstaHire'. This app enables the job seekers, irrespective of the domain or stream, to get hired via simple yet precise methodology of action.
It is beneficial for both the employers and the employees as it simplifies the entire process of hiring. On providing a path for the job-seekers to present information about their skills as well as their achievements, the app also allows the recruiter to surf through the profiles and identify prospective employees, matching their requirements. 
Having been deployed on hybrid platform, the app is capable of running on Android as well as iOS, in addition to be available online and hence can function on any device with a browser. As the name denotes, InstaHire enables easy searching of jobs and simplifies the effort required to hire as well as to get hired instantaneously. 
The app includes map & location based searching features. A simple procedure is established for the job seekers to register themselves and create a professional profile, showcasing their skills and achievements. The profiles play an important role in ascertaining the skills of the employees. The employer simply searches for employees and gets a list of people, matching the requirement, along with the location. 
He/she can directly select and recruit people based on their profiles. There is also chat option which allows communication between the employer and employee. This can be used to simulate a quick interview process. On the other hand, if the requirement is small, the user can simply post about it on InstaHire and the interested employees would bid on the task.
Thus, InstaHire is capable of providing on-demand service for hiring. The bid amount as well as the location of the bidders is available on the map on the user's device. Based on the bid amount and the profile of the employee, the employer can award the project to the specific person and get it done soon. While, the work is in progress, the employer can keep track of the progress and can propose changes on the go, via the chat facility. 
Once the work is completed, the worker gets his payment via online transfer from the employer or can also be paid in person on mutual understanding. Authentication and security are given utmost preferences in the making of this app. Indeed, the app uses a secure payment gateway through login portal and all details are securely stored to prevent any unauthorized access. It also allows the users to check the validity of the task requirement and also allows cash payment based on the requirement. 
It can also detect fraudulent posts and remove fake profiles by identifying them based on their activity. Though, there are many freelancing apps in the market, they are not customized for Indians and not much sought . For a large nation like India, the location based searching makes InstaHire distinct as it enables users to provide or take service within their location. 
It has multilingual support and is crafted in such a way that anyone can quickly register and post their requirements within a few minutes. It also has voice based navigation from one screen to the other and provides an option to read content on screen, which will be beneficial for the users with visual impairment. InstaHire is built with machine learning algorithms which are capable of rating the work done by the employees automatically. 
The consistent UI(User Interface) built on Material Design Principles and the inbuilt analytics to provide customized offers for the users makes our InstaHire, a completely user friendly, reliable and beneficial one considering the realistic aspects and innovative prospects offered in the application.
A great business market can also be outlined by means of agreements with companies. The inevitable marketing strategy is seen through the unique, pragmatic and innovative app features such as bidding notes, secured payment transfer, preventing unauthorized access, location based access, mutual acceptance and conversation through InstaChattie, exquisite user design with great deal of understanding for a wide range of users right from layman to chairman, special audio feature for the persons with visual impairment and overall, a perfect blend of choices with the objective to hire and to be hired. In fact, the changes after the feedback have been effected to enhance the incredibility of the application both in terms of revenue and quality offered so as to cover a wide range of users.

